What is a Stochastic Process? It is a collection of Random Variables. What is a Random Variable ? It's a mapping from sample space to real numbers. What is a Sample Space? It is a set of possible outcomes. How did we arrive at the possible outcomes set? We do a random experiment. What is a random experiment? It's an experiment whose outcome can't be computed with certainty. Phew! 

Let's take a real life example to see how we can fit it all. Since the world is getting hotter every summer, people are desperate for a good rain to cool it all down. And since it's not in your hands, you want to model this whole situation. The act of observing the weather is called a random experiment since it's not perfectly certain if it's going to rain or not. The set of possible outcomes here is obviously going to be "Rain" and "No Rain". Let X<sub>i</sub> be a random variable, that equals 1 if it rains and 0 otherwise at day i. Then, the collection of X<sub>i</sub>'s over time is gonna form a stochastic process which is defined by {X<sub>i</sub> : i = 0,1,2,...}. A stochastic process is defined by two main things. It is characterised by a State Space S and TPM (Transition Probability Matrix). State Space S is again, the set of possible values of X<sub>i</sub> can take ( In our case, it's either 1 or 0). Stochastic Processes can be classified into the following:
1. Discrete Index Discrete State Space Processes 
	State Space is a discrete set and the index set is also discrete (You are observing the process in discrete time). The rest of the classification can be understood by common intuition I guess (Behaving like a typical lazy teacher, ain't I 😝)
2. Discrete Index Continuous State Space Processes
3. Continuous Index Discrete State Space Processes
4. Continuous Index Continuous State Space Processes